So how’s the family?
Great.
Kids are gettin’ so big.
Haley’s about to go off–
You can stop
holding your stomach in.
to college.
You still exercising?
Clearly.
I look at
a Clint Eastwood
or a Chuck Norris...
and I think,
"There’s no reason
I can’t stay tough like"–
Oh, tickles.
But– Ow.
That hurt?
No. Not–
Ow.
Hmm.
What?
It’s probably nothing.
You feeling okay?
Yeah.
Maybe we’ll just run a couple
of tests just to be safe.
What kind of tests?
If there’s anything wrong,
I’ll give you a call.
Oh. Okay.
So, how’s the real estate
market doing?
Well, interest rates are low,
so it’s a great time
to be a buyer,
but if you’re a seller,
you really have to–
Bend over.
True, but a quality property
is still–
No, no, no.
I need you to bend over.
Oh. Right.
Well, let’s dim the lights,
crank up the Norah Jones
and get this over with.
[ Cameron Laughing ]
Okay.
[ Both Laughing ]
Oh, hey, how’d it go?
Amazing.
I was so proud of him.
Oh, thanks, honey.
I’m kinda proud of me too.
Look at what they gave me.
"California State
Bar Association Award...
for distinguished service
in the field
of environmental law."
Wow.
[ Cameron ]
You should have seen it.
They called his name.
He went up on stage.
He gave a great speech.
It was humble, inspirational,
with a touch of dry humor
at the end.
It was very Colin Firth.
Oh, Cam.
Thank you,
but it’s hardly an Oscar.
In the environmental
law community,
it kind of is an Oscar.
How was Lily?
I hope you weren’t too bored.
Oh, please.
Are you kidding me?
I love talking to her.
She knows more words than Haley.
Oh, that looks great
up there.
How impressed are you
with your uncle right now?
So impressed.
I didn’t want to ruin
their moment by telling them
how many awards I’ve gotten,
but let’s just say
I don’t get out of bed
for a trophy that size.
[ Banging ]
Darn it!
I’m trying to send an e-mail.
This mouse keeps sticking.
[ Gasps ]
Pretty big reaction.
It’s 10 bucks, tops.
You just reminded me
about my dream last night.
I was in the middle of a meadow,
coming down a staircase.
Then suddenly
a black mouse showed up.
He stopped,
stared at me in the eyes...
and opened his little mouth.
[ No Dialogue ]
What’d it say?
What did he say, Jay?
He was a mouse.
They don’t know how to talk.
Now you’re playing logic police?
You’re standing on a staircase
in a meadow?
In my country,
when somebody dreams
about a black mouse,
it means that something bad
is going to happen.
Ah, don’t worry about it.
I dreamt about
a lucky blue cow.
We’re good to go.
Hey, Jay,
this is what I’m wearing
for golfing tomorrow.
Wanted to give you a heads up
in case there’s some overlap.
- What are you going for here?
- Matt Damon in Bagger Vance.
You didn’t get that?
I did.
I think you look
just like him.
It’s the whole reason
I asked you to teach me to golf.
Any sport where
you can wear this, I’m in.
[ Doorbell Rings ]
Who is that?
It’s 10:00 at night.
I’ll get it.
Hold on, Gatsby.
[ Ringing Continues ]
Hola.
It’s Javier. Open up!
Dad!
[ Laughing ]
There’s my campeón.
There’s your black mouse.
Hola, Javier.
What are you doing in town?
I missed Manny’s birthday.
Plus, I have a free week.
You’re staying a week?
Make that go away.
So, Manny, tomorrow,
in honor of you
becoming a man,
I am taking you
to the racetrack
to enjoy the sport of kings.
That’s so cool!
Actually, Manny and I have plans
to play golf tomorrow.
Golfing? Psht!
That is for old men
and for women who like women.
Come on. Your dad is in town.
Let’s go to the races.
- Yeah! Can we all go?
- Ay, no, baby, I can’t.
I promised Haley that I was
gonna help her with her Spanish.
But Jay’s going
to go with you.
What?
I’m not gonna let Manny
take off with Javier by himself.
Once, when Manny was six,
Javier took him
to the Petting Zoo,
which later I found out
that was the name
of the stripper club.
A real petting zoo
would have been cleaner.
But I was looking forward to–
You’re going.
That I don’t miss.
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
♪♪ [ Whistling ]
Would you look at that.
Oh. Yeah, you know,
I never saw us as
"trophy on the mantel" people,
but yours looks
so gosh darn good up there,
I figured, why not be proud
of what we’ve done?
[ Chuckles ]
Yeah.
"First place,
bass-catcher spring fish-off.
Missouri North Division."
Two-day total
of 10 small-mouth bass...
weighing 34.24 pounds,
with a four-and-a-half pound
kicker. Boom.
So you beat all the other boys
aged 12 through 17?
Mm-hmm. Sure did.
Wow.
Look at our trophies
up there.
We’re a couple of winners,
aren’t we?
Are we?
Claire?
Where are all my razor blades?
- They’re not in that box?
- No.
- I guess they’re gone.
- They can’t be gone.
In my 20s, I went on a game show
and won a lifetime supply
of razor blades.
Okay, Phil, time is up.
What is your answer?
3.14159.
- [ Buzzer Buzzes ]
- Oh, I’m sorry, Phil.
The correct answer
is "banana cream."
Banana cream.
Well, you got me there, Chip.
But you’re not leaving
empty-handed.
No, you’re going home
with a lifetime supply
of Genesis twin-blade razors.
What? Two blades in one razor?
Man, it’ll never get better
than that!
[ Laughs ]
You must have used ’em all up.
They said a lifetime supply.
Honey, you got 15 years
of free razor blades.
Put that in the "win" column
and move on.
Mom, is it okay
if my friend Walt comes over...
to play Rebel Fighters 3?
Honey, don’t you think
it’s a little weird...
that one of your best friends
is an 80-year-old man?
No.
It makes it more fun
because he was in a real war.
He says cool things like,
"See ya in hell, Klaus."
[ Laughs ]
I don’t even know
what that means.
Oh, hey, Dad.
Some doctor called for you.
Dr. Sendroff?
Yeah, that’s it.
You were in the shower.
What did he say?
He wants you to call him
right away.
Oh, well.
See ya in hell, Klaus.
[ Beeping ]
What’s wrong?
I don’t know.
He ran a few tests
on me yesterday.
He said he’d call
if something was wrong,
and now he’s calling.
Hi. This is Phil Dunphy.
I’m returning
Dr. Sendroff’s call.
Are you serious?
What?
He’s on a flight to London.
Is there any way
I can reach him or, uh,
someone else I can talk to?
Okay. Fine.
Please, just tell him
it’s urgent.
Thank you.
[ Beeps ]
- Oh, boy.
- Honey, I’m sure it’s nothing.
Claire, I’m tender
under my arm.
Maybe Luke hit you with
his broomstick when you guys
were playing quidditch.
I’m way too fast.
He never touched me.
I can assure you,
you are perfectly fine.
That’s very comforting,
coming from a marketing major
at a party school.
[ Crowd Chattering ]
[ Jay ]
I like the number four horse.
He loves this track.
His dad won the Preakness.
Last three finishes
were in the money.
I like Miranda’s Miracle.
Why?
There’s this girl, Miranda,
in my class,
and she’s really pretty.
And if she liked me back,
it’ll be a miracle.
Would you bet two dollars
on that one for me, Jay?
Sure, but you’re throwing
your money away.
You both are.
The winner of the race
will be number seven,
My Hometown.
Number seven.
Well, he’s carrying
three extra pounds
and he hates the distance.
Those are just words
on a page.
I look the horse in the eye,
and he tells me
he is the winner.
Tells you, huh?
Perhaps this will
sound crazy to you–
No need for the qualifier.
but I have always
been able to see
into the soul of a horse.
It is a gift,
and I do not question it.
Just like I always end up
on the shortest line
at the bank.
Maybe I should bet
on your horse.
Are you kidding me?
These aren’t just words.
They give you
all this information...
so you can make
an informed decision
and beat the odds.
Yes, of course,
and this is why everybody
with a racing form is rich.
Now come on.
It’s time to place our bets.
What’s it gonna be, Manny?
Two dollars on My Hometown.
You really think
he’s going to win?
Well, I only know
what he tells me
with his eyes.
Don’t ask me why,
but maybe
in some previous life...
I was a horse.
Or part of a horse.
Hey. Alex called. She left
her cell phone here. She’s gonna
come back and get it.
Cam, did you do something
to your fish trophy?
Oh, yeah.
I forgot about
this fun middle part.
Now it looks like
the fish is jumping
out of the water.
Yeah. Right over mine.
Do I sense something,
Mitchell?
You know, just because
mine’s a little taller
than yours...
doesn’t make yours
any less important.
Oh, no.
That’s not what I was feeling.
Not even a little bit.
Oh, my God, you don’t like
that I put my trophy up.
I just think it’s a little weird
that immediately
after I win a trophy,
you feel the need to dig
this thing up and plop it
down next to mine.
I’ll have you know
that I’ve wanted to display this
for quite some time,
but I put it in a box
in the garage
with all my other awards–
yes, awards–
out of courtesy
to a sadly award-less you.
It looks ridiculous.
Mine is a distinguished
professional award
given to me by my peers,
and yours was
given to you on a pier.
Okay. For your information,
when I won this,
it was a very big deal.
I cut a ribbon
at the grocery store
and signed autographs.
"Best fishes, Cameron Tucker."
[ Chuckles ]
Oh, you know what?
I just remembered.
Mine comes with
a really fun pedestal too.
Ohh! Look at that.
Oh, and proper hierarchy
is restored.
Mm-hmm.
Unless you suddenly remember
that your fish
came with a top hat.
Okay. Well, you know what?
I’m going to go get Lily from
her party and go to the park.
Okay.
This award has changed you,
Mitchell.
You may be flying high now,
but pretty soon...
you’re gonna be
free fallin’, Tom Petty.
Because you’re petty.
Tom Petty.
Hmm? Get it?
About three sentences ago.
[ Door Slams ]
Hola, Haley.
Hi, Gloria.
Thanks for comin’ over.
En español, por favor.
Uh, hola, Gloria.
Gracias for comin’ over.
No, the whole thing.
I don’t know the whole thing.
Why do I even need
to learn Spanish?
I live in California.
I’m never gonna use it.
[ Sighs ]
That’s the problem
with Americans.
They expect all of us
to know their language,
but they don’t even
make the effort to learn ours.
Win a war some time.
Then we’ll start talking
like you.
Huh! So wrong.
[ Laughs ]
- Oh. Hey, Gloria.
- Hi, Phil. How are you?
- I wish I knew.
- Why? What’s wrong?
Oh, I don’t want to bum you out.
My doctor did some tests
and said he’d call
if something was wrong,
and he called this morning.
What did he say?
I don’t know. I missed the call.
Now I can’t reach him.
[ Gasps ]
The black mouse.
What?
In my dream.
It was a bad omen.
But probably not for you.
[ Gasps ]
The staircase!
No, no, no.
You’re fine, you’re fine.
Am I? Get this.
Fifteen years ago,
I won a lifetime supply
of razor blades.
They ran out... today.
[ Gasps ]
[ Spits ]
What’s with the spitting?
Are you warding off death?
No. When I did–
[ Gasps ]
I think I suck in
a little bug.
Sixteen
for the first race,
ten from the second race,
plus 34.
Sixty dollars!
You’re a genius, Dad.
Well, I cannot
take all the credit.
It is a particularly
chatty group
of horses today.
I love gambling!
It’s so easy.
It’s not easy.
Well, not for you.
- You’ve lost, what,
three in a row?
- Oh, burn, Jay.
I’m sorry.
That was uncalled for.
This is all so heady.
Fifty dollars
on Little Bacon to win.
Uy.
Yeah, uy.
- What? What ooh-ee?
- There is something not right
about that horse.
I think I saw it too.
[ Jay ]
You didn’t see anything.
This horse is a heavy favorite.
The rest of the pack
couldn’t beat a merry-go-round.
- I’m stickin’
with Little Bacon.
- [ Manny ] It’s your funeral.
Who are we goin’ with, Dad?
Nobody in this race,
papito.
It was quiet down there
in the paddock just now.
Too quiet.
[ Chuckling ]
Oh, gee.
You know what? Make it 300.
Oh, my.
I’m tellin’ you, kid,
this is the one.
And you know how I know?
’Cause it said–
[ Imitates Bluster ]
They don’t talk like that.
"Maria bought
a beautiful white dress
for her wedding."
Um–
Maria compró...
un hermoso vestido blanco
para su–
I– I’m sorry.
I cannot concentrate
with him here.
What are you doing?
Just taking it all in.
[ Sobs ]
You’re a beautiful,
intelligent woman,
and don’t you
ever forget it.
Wow. He is so weird sometimes.
No, he’s not weird!
He’s a saint,
and you will miss him
when he’s gone!
One day.
Hey, Uncle Mitchell.
Hey.
Your, uh,
phone’s on the table.
[ Door Closes ]
- Uh, what’s that?
- Oh, Cam’s old fishing trophy.
Yeah, when I woke up
this morning,
that’s where I found it.
- Right after you got yours?
- Thank you!
Oh, my God.
Welcome to my world.
Last week, I got
this beautiful plaque
from the debate team...
for outstanding achievement,
and what did my mom do?
She found one of Luke’s
participant ribbons...
and a certificate Haley
got for showing up
somewhere on time...
and put all three of them
together on the same shelf.
It’s, like, so unfair.
I was so glad
I talked to Alex...
because she agreed
with every single thing
I was feeling,
which made me realize
that I was acting
like a 14-year-old girl.
[ Gunfire, Explosions ]
Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. Aaah!
[ Mutters ]
Come on, kid.
I just lost
an arm because of you.
Now get your head in the game.
Sorry. I can’t concentrate
with my dad staring at me.
I just love you so much.
I hope he’s talkin’ to you.
Uh! Oh, great. Now I’m dead.
I’m going to the bathroom.
You know,
they say that happens.
Hey, Walt.
You ever think about death?
I’m 85.
Death is my roommate.
I got a call from the doctor.
There’s a 60% chance
I’m gonna die.
Ha! Doctors.
Said I’d be dead
10 years ago.
Look at me.
I’m healthy as a–
[ Beeping ]
Oh. Gotta go change my tank.
- Phil, you gotta let this go.
- I’m sorry, Claire.
I don’t know how to react
when I find out...
there’s a 70% chance
I’m gonna die.
[ Exhales ]
Honey. Listen to me.
You’re gonna be fine.
You really think so?
I know so.
Claire’s my rock.
You know when you’re on a plane
and there’s turbulence,
you look
at the flight attendants,
and if they’re still smiling
and serving drinks,
you know everything’s
gonna be okay?
That’s Claire.
I could also picture her
as a cop.
[ Man On P.A. ]
...and into the final furlong,
it’s Little Bacon,
followed by Brad’s Wax Jacket–
[ Jay ]
Go, Little Bacon!
You got this.
- Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!
- And the winner is number nine,
Little Bacon.
Yes! I knew it!
You see that, Manny?
Dumb luck always runs out.
But if you live in the real
world and you use your head,
not have it in the clouds
like Dr. Dolittle there,
you’ll do okay.
Guess you should’ve listened
to Jay on this one, Dad.
You got that right.
You should have listened
to Jay.
I’ll tell you
somethin’ else.
You can’t look in
a horse’s eyes and
tell there’s something wrong.
You can’t even look in
their eyes at the same time.
One’s here and one’s here.
Come on, let’s go
to the window, kid.
I may need some help
carrying my winnings.
Oh, wait.
Jay, look.
Huh?
[ Javier ]
Inquiry.
What’s that?
It is when a horse
has committed an infraction.
Possible infraction.
Usually it’s nothing.
I’m sure–
The number nine horse,
Little Bacon,
has been disqualified
for interference.
What?
The winner is number six,
Brad’s Wax Jacket.
Ah. You see?
The eyes–
they do not lie.
Tough break, Jay.
Here.
Little something for gas.
Cam was right.
I was being petty.
So I found his box
of old trophies,
and I decided to surprise him
by having them on the mantel
when he got home.
Well, I was the one
who was surprised.
I had no idea
how many trophies he had.
First place,
and all of them
for different things.
Music, football, art show,
science fair,
a chili cook-off–
A lifetime of
accolades hidden away,
just so I wouldn’t feel bad.
Ugh! That’s a mouse.
That’s a–
Oh!
Ugh!
Oh, disgusting!
No, no. No, Cam.
I-I was gonna
make a big display.
I believe you have.
No, no, Cam,
there was a–
[ Stammers ]
Oh! Gross!
[ Squeaking ]
[ Clattering ]
Listen, Manny, do me a favor
and get me a cappuccino
from right over there, okay?
No, it’s okay.
I got it.
So–
You want to talk about
what happened back there?
Not at all.
You know, it is not
just the horses whose souls
I can read through their eyes.
All right.
You really want to know?
I’ll tell you.
Okay. I’ll leave you alone.
Ah, listen, hang on.
I’m sorry I went
after you like that
in front of Manny.
That was wrong.
No, I get it.
Nobody likes to lose
at the races, hmm?
I don’t owe this guy
anything.
He stops by
a couple of times a year
to see his kid.
It used to be a relief.
Gave me a nice break.
But now Manny and I,
we got our own thing.
Look, I know I’m not his dad.
Maybe I don’t like the reminder.
[ Doorbell Rings ]
Hey. What’s up?
Oh, my gosh.
What?
We came as soon
as we heard.
Heard what?
We heard Phil got bad news
from the doctor.
No. Who told you that?
Gloria.
No. I didn’t say
that he got bad news.
I said that
he was getting bad news.
Shh.
You don’t know
that he’s getting bad news.
I saw a black mouse.
[ Gasps ]
I saw a black mouse!
So he says.
- [ Claire ]
Okay, you guys–
- This is worse than I thought!
No, it’s not.
Listen to me. Listen.
Phil is fine. As a matter of
fact, you should go before
he even knows you’re here.
No, no. We’re staying.
We’re staying.
[ Chattering ]
We got here
as soon as we could.
Oh, my God.
- Did you bring
the coffee cake?
- Yes, I have it right here.
He carried it in
from the car.
I paid for it.
Listen. Listen to me.
I am very sorry for what
you are going through.
Thank you.
- Who is this?
- Who indeed?
I am Javier Delgado,
Manny’s father...
and Gloria’s
former husband and lover.
Oh.
I hope you do not think
this is insensitive,
but you are a beautiful woman,
and you will have
no trouble to find a–
Javier, the body
is not even cold yet.
The body is upstairs
watching basketball.
He is fine.
Gloria said he was sick.
No. He went to the doctor.
He had some tests.
The doctor called. That’s it.
Plus, today he ran out
of his lifetime supply
of razors.
That’s a sign.
This is a lot of hocus-pocus.
I can’t believe I bought
a coffee cake over this!
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
No, I’m-I’m confused.
What did the doctor say exactly?
I don’t know.
We missed his call this morning.
- The doctor called
on Saturday?
- Yeah. So?
Nothing.
Not nothing. Not nothing.
What?
Well, it’s just that, uh,
doctors don’t usually call
on Saturday with good news.
But they could call.
I mean, he could call
with anything.
Do you think he’s sick, Dad?
[ Footsteps ]
What’s– What’s going on?
Nothing. Nothing.
Everybody just came by
for absolutely no reason at all.
- You look worried.
- I’m not worried.
Oh, God.
The plane’s in trouble.
You put away the drink cart
and you’re strappin’ in.
You’re gonna be fine,
kid.
You are gonna be great.
[ Chattering ]
[ Jay ]
I wish I looked
as good as this kid.
Stop. Please.
You’re freaking me out.
- Are you gonna die?
- I don’t know!
There’s still
a five percent chance
I’ll make it!
[ Gasps ]
[ Cell Phone Ringing ]
[ Panting ]
It’s Dr. Sendroff.
Okay.
Guys, I don’t know
what’s on the other end
of this phone call,
but whatever happens,
I just want you to know
you’ve already given me
a lifetime supply of happiness.
I remember once, as a–
[ Ringing Continues ]
The phone!
Answer it!
Do it!
Dr. Sendroff.
What’s the word?
- Are you serious?
- [ Gasps ]
What?
- That’s it?
- What is it?
Hold on one second.
He’s calling
about a real estate listing.
I’m fine.
Oh, my–
Ay, no.
Yesterday, you said you’d call
if something was wrong.
Then you called.
Then you disappeared.
That is the most irresponsible,
unprofessional thing...
I’ve ever heard of
in my entire life,
and do you have anyone
to represent you in the sale
of your current house?
Look into his eyes.
I don’t care
what the doctor says,
I give him six months.
[ Whispering ]
Stop staring.
[ Door Slams ]
[ Applause ]
So, Phil Dunphy, tell us
a little bit about yourself.
Well, Chip, I’m married
to a great lady–
Hi, Claire–
and I have a baby girl.
Um, I’m a real estate agent,
and I enjoy playing checkers–
Okay.
both Chinese and American.
And, uh, I am a fan
of hip-hop.
Well, good for you.
Though I try to stay
neutral in the whole
East Coast/West Coast thang.
Next up, we have–
Oh, one quick thing.
Shout out to my, uh, college
buddy, Ling,
who built his own helicopter
and is taking his
first flight today.
And, uh, I also want to wish a
happy anniversary to my in-laws,
Jay and Dede Pritchett.
Your eternal love
is an inspiration to us all.
Okay, that’s enough.
Next up, we have homemaker from
West Mifflin, Pennsylvania.
[ Woman ]
Hi.